welcome to the second section of
hands-on continuous integration and
automation with Jenkins in this section
we are going to introduce key concepts
and the essential aspects of Jenkins
that we will use it throughout the
course we will explore the Jenkins
dashboard and have a look at the most
important options in the Jenkins admin
console
finally the practical part of section 2
is to configure and run our first
Jenkins job let's start by making the
tour of the Jenkins dashboard in this
video we'll explore together the Jenkins
dashboard and learn key concepts such as
jobs bills views plugins etc we will
also have a brief look at the most
important options in the Jenkins admin
console this image identifies the most
important elements of the Jenkins
dashboard and you can use it as a cheat
sheet to navigate the Jenkins user
interface now let's look at these
elements directly in Jenkins on the left
hand side we find the sidebar menu
giving access to Jenkins admin tools
like many Jenkins the list of users and
the people and the list of credentials
the sidebar menu also allows to create
new jobs via the new item button a new
views button will explore these options
in the next videos
the central part of the Jenkins
dashboard is taken by the all view this
view lists all the jobs present in
Jenkins I created some madami jobs to
populate the old view you can also
create a new views from here by clicking
on the plus button and select the jobs
you want to display in a view inside the
old view the jobs or projects are listed
in here are displayed the build status
of the latest run of the job success in
this case the build trend using a
weather icon depicting how the last 5
runs of the job went several types of
weather icons
ranging from sunny all the latest bells
were successful to cloudy very cloudy
rainy and even stormy all the latest
bills failed then you have the name of
the job or project when it was last
executed successfully or unsuccessfully
and how long it took to execute finally
you have the button to start a job or
project on the left-hand side below the
sidebar menu there are two other
elements the bills queue and the built
executors status they is coming to play
when jobs are executed in Jenkins in
fact every time a job runs it is
assigned to an executor when several
jobs run at the same time all the
executors can be busy and the next
scheduled job is put into the bills
queue waiting for an executor to become
available to illustrate the build
executor and builds queue I'm going to
run three jobs at a very short interval
by clicking on the start job icon as you
can see the first two jobs are assigned
to the two executors while the third one
is put in a queue when an executor
becomes available the job in the queue
is assigned to the executor multiple
executors allow to run several jobs in
parallel and you can configure how many
executors you want to assign to Jenkins
usually not exceeding the number of
processors in the machine where Jenkins
is running let's define some key
concepts we saw in action in the Jenkins
dashboard first a job or project which
is a runnable tasks like running tests
compiling code deploying to an
environment etc in the chunkies
dashboard we saw three jobs or projects
a build is the result of a single
execution of a job each build is an
Associated status and in the example we
had two successful builds and one failed
build
we also saw the bill trend in the form
of a weather icon sunny cloudy rainy
stormy etc finally we look at views
which are a way to display jobs in tarp
categories in particular we look at the
old view listing all the jobs currently
present in Jenkins now let's have a
quick overview of the manage Jenkins
menu which is the admin console to
administer Jenkins we saw the link to
manage shangkun's in the sidebar menu in
the previous demo this image identifies
the most important options of manage
Jenkins and you can use it as a cheat
sheet to navigate Jenkins admin console
this is a very brief overview but it's
important to know where these options
are in case you are going to administer
Jenkins for a development team let's go
back to Jenkins and click on manage
Jenkins this opens all the options in
the admin console we are now going to
explore the most important options
configure system is where you can set up
a global configurations for Jenkins such
as number of executors environment
variables global version control
configuration etc I go back to manage
Jenkins and click on configure global
security this is where you can set up
access control for Jenkins and other
security options I go back to manage
Jenkins and click on manage plugins this
is where you can install plug-ins which
are extensions to Jenkins core
functionality we already install the
most common plugins during the Jenkins
installation in section 1 or you can
further extend Jenkins with additional
plugins I go back to manage Jenkins and
click on manage nodes a node is a
machine part of the Jenkins environment
incapable of executing a job if you run
Jenkins on a single machine the only
node is master other machines can be
controlled by the master node and added
to the Jenkins configuration to offload
work from the master node
in this case the additional machines are
called slave or agent nodes agent nodes
are useful to run memory intensive jobs
without affecting the master node or to
test code on a specific environment
let's review some key concepts we saw in
the Jenkins admin console plugins are
extensions to Jenkins core
functionalities nodes are machines part
of the Jenkins environment and capable
of executing a job nodes are categorized
into master nodes and slaves or agents
nodes this is the end of this video
where we explored the Jenkins dashboard
watch the next video where we will be
looking at job configuration